# 18.06 Quiz 3
## May 8, 2010
### Professor Strang

**Your PRINTED name is:** _________________________________
**Your recitation number is** _________________________________

---

1. **(40 points)** Suppose $u$ is a unit vector in $R^n$, so $u^T u = 1$. This problem is about the $n$ by $n$ symmetric matrix $H = I - 2uu^T$.

(a) Show directly that $H^2 = I$. Since $H = H^T$, we now know that $H$ is not only symmetric but also __________________________.

(b) One eigenvector of $H$ is $u$ itself. Find the corresponding eigenvalue.

(c) If $v$ is any vector perpendicular to $u$, show that $v$ is an eigenvector of $H$ and **find the eigenvalue**. With all these eigenvectors $v$, that eigenvalue must be repeated how many times? Is $H$ diagonalizable? Why or why not?

(d) Find the diagonal entries $H_{11}$ and $H_{ii}$ in terms of $u_1, \ldots, u_n$. Add up $H_{11} + \ldots + H_{nn}$ and separately add up the eigenvalues of $H$.

2. (30 points) Suppose $A$ is a positive definite symmetric $n$ by $n$ matrix.

(a) How do you know that $A^{-1}$ is also positive definite? (We know $A^{-1}$ is symmetric. I just had an e-mail from the International Monetary Fund with this question.)

(b) Suppose $Q$ is any orthogonal $n$ by $n$ matrix. How do you know that $Q A Q^T = Q A Q^{-1}$ is positive definite? Write down which test you are using.

(c) Show that the block matrix

$$
 B = \begin{bmatrix} A & A \\ A & A \end{bmatrix} 
$$

is positive semidefinite. How do you know $B$ is not positive definite?

3. (30 points) This question is about the matrix


$$
 A = \begin{bmatrix} 0 & -1 \\ 4 & 0 \end{bmatrix} 
$$


.

(a) Find its eigenvalues and eigenvectors.

Write the vector $u(0) = \begin{bmatrix} 2 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$ as a combination of those eigenvectors.

(b) Solve the equation $\frac{du}{dt} = Au$ starting with the same vector $u(0)$ at time $t = 0$.

In other words: the solution $u(t)$ is what combination of the eigenvectors of $A$?

(c) Find the 3 matrices in the Singular Value Decomposition $A = U \Sigma V^T$ in two steps.

- First, compute $V$ and $\Sigma$ using the matrix $A^T A$.

- Second, find the (orthonormal) columns of $U$.

MIT OpenCourseWare  
[http://ocw.mit.edu](http://ocw.mit.edu)

# 18.06 Linear Algebra  
Spring 2010

For information about citing these materials or our Terms of Use, visit: [http://ocw.mit.edu/terms](http://ocw.mit.edu/terms).

